Build an XMTP hello world app V2 (GM Bot) (#263)
xmtp/xmtp-dot-org: docs/client-sdk/javascript/tutorials/build-an-xmtp-hello-world-app.md

1. Connect your wallet( using [modal3web](https://web3modal.com/)) app to the "GM bot" app.
2. Connect your blockchain account to the XMTP network using your wallet app.
3. Send a preconfigured "gm" message to an XMTP message bot and receive a reply from the bot.

The app includes only the code required to accomplish these steps and little else. This helps keep the codebase relatively bite-sized so that developers of all skill levels can ease into learning the basics of building a messaging app with XMTP.

Completing this tutorial doesn't cost you any Ether. At this time, all messaging with XMTP is free. To learn more, see [Will XMTP charge messaging fees](https://c293c1b1.website-9re.pages.dev/docs/dev-concepts/faq/#will-xmtp-charge-messaging-fees)?
   

## Prerequisites
Be sure to have these prerequisites in place before you start the tutorial:

* Node (LTS version) and npm to install app requirements and dependencies

* Access to Chrome, Firefox, or Brave. The "GM Bot" app is designed to work with these browsers.

* A wallet app browser extension installed, such as MetaMask or Coinbase Wallet, and an Ethereum account

> * For example, you can install the MetaMask wallet app browser extension and use it to create an Ethereum account you can use to send and receive XMTP messages. To learn more, see [How to create a MetaMask Wallet](https://myterablock.medium.com/how-to-create-or-import-a-metamask-wallet-a551fc2f5a6b).

Author: Done! thanks for the feedback!

> * Beyond the purposes of this "GM Bot" tutorial, XMTP can be used with more than just Ethereum accounts and Metamask or Coinbase Wallet. To learn more, see Wallet apps and blockchains supported by XMTP.*

Author: Great catch!

A code editor of your choice that you can use to build the app

## Step 1. Create a React + Typescript + Tailwind app

To create the React app + Typescript, run:

```
npx create-react-app my-app --template typescript
```

Let's go into our new React app and install Tailwind.css

```bash
cd my-app
npm install -D tailwindcss
```

> Next we need to create the config files which can easily be done via the following command:

Author: nice!! Bookmarking this! Also removed *easily!

```bash
npx tailwindcss init -p
```

> Next open up the created "tailwind.config.js" file and add the following to "content":

Author: perfect! Thanks!

```js title="tailwind.config.js"
content: [
    './src/**/*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}',
],
```

Next we need to add the Tailwind directives to the "src/index.css" file, add the following to the top of the file:

```css title="src/index.css"
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

Finally, let's run our app and see it come to life
```bash
npm run start
```

The app opens at localhost:3000 in your default browser.

## Step 2. Build Connect wallet button

Your "GM Bot" app needs a **Connect wallet** button that enables you to connect a wallet app, such as MetaMask.

This app uses [Web3Modal](https://web3modal.com/), [Ethers](https://docs.ethers.io/v5/single-page/), and [WAGMI](https://wagmi.sh/) to connect to commonly used wallet apps.

:::important

Before starting this task, be sure to have a wallet app browser extension installed, such as MetaMask or Coinbase Wallet, and an Ethereum account. To learn more, see [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

:::

### Install Web3Modal.

In the `my-app` directory, run:

```bash
npm install @web3modal/ethereum @web3modal/react wagmi ethers
```
This adds the Web3Modal dependency to your `package.json`.

### Create Web3Modal button

> All our code changes will be in `my-app/App.tsx` for ease-of-use

Author: Done. Also removed "ease-of-use"

import {
  EthereumClient,
  modalConnectors,
  walletConnectProvider,
} from "@web3modal/ethereum";
import { Web3Modal, Web3Button } from "@web3modal/react";
import { configureChains, createClient,} from "wagmi";
import { mainnet, polygon } from "wagmi/chains";

const chains = [ mainnet, polygon];
// Wagmi client
const { provider } = configureChains(chains, [
  walletConnectProvider({ projectId: "<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>" }),
]);
const wagmiClient = createClient({
  autoConnect: true,
  connectors: modalConnectors({ appName: "web3Modal", chains }),
  provider,
});
// Web3Modal Ethereum Client
const ethereumClient = new EthereumClient(wagmiClient, chains);

function App() {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <Web3Button/>
      <Web3Modal
        projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
        ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
      />
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

:::important
Because we are using Web3Modal, we are require to pass in a **<Project_ID>**

Head over to [WalletConnect Cloud](https://cloud.walletconnect.com/sign-in) to sign in or sign up. Create (or use an existing) project and copy its associated Project ID. You will need this in order to use Web3Modal v2.
:::

> Awesome! So we just added a Connect Wallet button to our app. 

Author: `create react` projects has a hotload feature where you dont necessarily need to run `npm start` anymore. I would suggest not adding it but ill run through the whole tutorial again and see if its needed. 

The only time i ever have to stop the app and rebuild is when adding a module. in this case, we add all module dependencies at the beginning and run `npm start` right at the beginning.

         <Web3Button/>
         <Web3Modal
           projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
           ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
         />
        {isConnected && <button onClick={initXmtp}>Connect to XMTP</button>}
       </div>
     );
   }

   export default App;
   ```
   At this point, clicking Connect to XMTP will ask your wallet for a signature request. Below is an example of a MetaMask Signature request screen for signing to enable an XMTP identity.

   So now that re created the connect wallet button and connecting to XMTP, lets put it all together and display and send messages next!

## Step 4. Send GM to the bot, display messages, and stream new messages
Now that the XMTP identity associated with your blockchain account is connected to the XMTP network, you can send and receive messages with XMTP.

For simplicity, your "GM Bot" app enables you to send a preconfigured "gm" message (GM Bot) to an XMTP message bot that is programmed to automatically reply to an address it receives a message from. This makes it easy for you to immediately see the outcome of sending a message.

The below code snippets does a few things:
1. Creates a `MessagelList` component.

> 2. Retrieves and stores message in `messages`

Author: good catch. `messages` is an array prop. Will add this:

Retrieves and stores message in `messages` array.

   ]);
   const wagmiClient = createClient({
     autoConnect: true,
     connectors: modalConnectors({ appName: "web3Modal", chains }),
     provider,
   });
   // Web3Modal Ethereum Client
   const ethereumClient = new EthereumClient(wagmiClient, chains);
   // highlight-start
   type MessageListProps = {
    msg: DecodedMessage[];
   };
   // highlight-end

   function App() {
     const { isConnected } = useAccount()
     // highlight-start
     const [messages, setMessages] = useState<DecodedMessage[]>([]); 
     const [client, setClient] = useState<any>();
     const [xmtpClientAddress, setXmtpClientAddress] = useState<any>();
     // highlight-end

     // highlight-start
     const initXmtp = async function() {
       const signer = await fetchSigner()
       const xmtp = await Client.create(signer, { env: "production" })
       const conversation = await xmtp.conversations.newConversation(
         PEER_ADDRESS
       )
      const messages = await conversation.messages({
        direction: SortDirection.SORT_DIRECTION_DESCENDING
      })
    
      setClient(conversation)
      setMessages(messages)
      setXmtpClientAddress(xmtp.address)
      // highlight-end
     }

> 

Author: Thanks for catching this. Sometimes its a bit hard to read .tsx code within markdown, lol. Prettier doesnt play well lol.

             {msg.map((message, index) => (
               <>
                 <li key={index}>
                   {message.senderAddress === PEER_ADDRESS ? 
                     <span className="font-semibold underline text-red-600">BOT:</span>
                   :
                   <span className="font-semibold underline text-green-600">Me: </span>
                   }
                   {message.content}
                 </li>
               </>
             ))}
             
           </ul>
       )
     };

     return (
       <div className="container flex flex-col mt-8">
         <Web3Button/>
         <Web3Modal
           projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
           ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
         />

         {isConnected && xmtpClientAddress &&
           <>
             <MessageList msg={messages} />
             <button className="rounded-full bg-green-500 mt-4 p-2" onClick={onSendMessage}>Send GM</button>
           </>
         }

         {isConnected && !xmtpClientAddress && 
           <button onClick={initXmtp}>Connect to XMTP</button>}
       </div>
     );
   }

   export default App;

   
   ```

> if all goes well, you should have an app that looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If all goes well, you should have an app that looks like this:
```

Author: Great catch! I wonder if vscode offers spell check. something i need to explore lol

![gif bot tutorial](img/gm-bot.gif)

> 

Reviewer: Because this last step overwrites all of the code at once - we may need to remind people to replace `<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>` with their Product ID again.

Or maybe the first time you talk about the Project ID - you can give people a heads-up that as they work through the tutorial and start copying and pasting code - they need to remember to update the <YOUR_PROJECT_ID> value.

Author: good catch! Will update with an :::important. 

^ are those good mardkwon callouts to remind readers? or should we use a different type of callout?

Reviewer: Yes - love callouts for something like this! =)

Here is a list of the different types: https://github.com/xmtp/xmtp-dot-org/pull/62/files#diff-38e3f93aecd4dcc78b0aab8c9b1f4220acf634f17faf508ea04cb75a70b1a551R9

You can see how they display here: https://junk-range-possible-git-markdown-stylesheet-xmtp-labs.vercel.app/markdown-test/markdown-stylesheet#calloutsadmonitions-h2

Author: awesome, Added a :::Info callout

Congratulations on building your own XMTP app and sending and receiving your first message with it!

## Learn more

Now that you've had a "GM Bot" introduction to building with XMTP, here are some resources to help you continue building with XMTP:

* Learn more about the [XMTP client SDK for JavaScript](https://github.com/xmtp/xmtp-js), including more details about the XMTP functions used in the code samples in this tutorial. <!--XMTP functions? Hmmm... I'm talking about creating a client, listing convos, listing messages in convos, and streaming messages. What would you call these things as expressed in the code?-->

* Explore XMTP chat apps with more features than the XMTP "GM Bot" app:

  * [XMTP Quickstart Chat app repo](https://github.com/xmtp/xmtp-quickstart-react)

    An example React chat app you can use as a developer tool to learn how to build a basic 1:1 chat app using the XMTP client SDK. The app is intentionally streamlined and unopinionated, making it a good quickstart launching point for building with XMTP.

>   * [XMTP Chat app repo](https://github.com/xmtp/example-chat-react)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [XMTP Inbox chat app repo](https://github.com/xmtp-labs/xmtp-inbox-web)
```

>     An example React chat app that demonstrates both basic and advanced features of the XMTP client SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    An example React chat app that demonstrates both basic and advanced capabilities of the XMTP client SDK, showcasing innovative ways of building with XMTP.
```

     provider,
   });
   // Web3Modal Ethereum Client
   const ethereumClient = new EthereumClient(wagmiClient, chains);

   function App() {
     // highlight-next-line
     const { isConnected } = useAccount()

     return (
       <div className="App">
         <Web3Button/>
         <Web3Modal
           projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
           ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
         />
         // highlight-next-line
        {isConnected && <button onClick={initXmtp}>Connect to XMTP</button>}
       </div>
     );
   }

   export default App;
   ```
   So now, the **Connect to XMTP** button should only show when your wallet is connected.
   
3. Now, let's add an onClick handler when users click the button. This will initialize XMTP with your app.
   ```tsx title="App.tsx" showLineNumbers
   import React from 'react';
   import './App.css';
   import {
     EthereumClient,
     modalConnectors,
     walletConnectProvider,
   } from "@web3modal/ethereum";
   import { Web3Modal, Web3Button } from "@web3modal/react";
   import { configureChains, createClient,} from "wagmi";
   import { mainnet, polygon } from "wagmi/chains";
   // highlight-start

>    import { fetchSigner } from '@wagmi/core'
>    import { Client } from '@xmtp/xmtp-js'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   import { fetchSigner } from '@wagmi/core';
   import { Client } from '@xmtp/xmtp-js';
```

I'm definitely not a dev, but I see these `;` in the subsequent code samples - so thought it would be good to add them here too.

Author: ahh yeah, missed those. Prettier doesnt catch these on markdown files. Thanks!

   // highlight-end
   
   const chains = [ mainnet, polygon];
   // Wagmi client
   const { provider } = configureChains(chains, [
     walletConnectProvider({ projectId: "<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>" }),
   ]);
   const wagmiClient = createClient({
     autoConnect: true,
     connectors: modalConnectors({ appName: "web3Modal", chains }),
     provider,
   });
   // Web3Modal Ethereum Client
   const ethereumClient = new EthereumClient(wagmiClient, chains);

   function App() {
     const { isConnected } = useAccount()
     // highlight-start
     const initXmtp = async function() {
       const signer = await fetchSigner()
       const xmtp = await Client.create(signer, { env: "production" })
     }
     // highlight-end
     return (
       <div className="App">
         <Web3Button/>
         <Web3Modal
           projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
           ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
         />
        {isConnected && <button onClick={initXmtp}>Connect to XMTP</button>}
       </div>
     );
   }

   export default App;
   ```

>    At this point, clicking the **Connect to XMTP** button will ask your wallet for a signature request. Below is an example of a MetaMask Signature request screen for signing to enable an XMTP identity.

Reviewer: I don't see the screen below. Do you want to include the screen or just remove this sentence? =)

Author: Added image. Thanks for catching this!

>    So now that we created the **Connect Wallet** and **Connect to XMTP** button, let's put it all together and display and send messages next!

Reviewer: At this time, if I do `npm run start` - I get the following error. The error is not present when I finish building the app. 

I'm not sure if it is just me - but if this is expected, I wonder if it might be helpful to let the user know that they might see this error before they finish? Some users might get hung up on it and try to resolve it before moving on. =)

```
webpack compiled with 127 warnings
ERROR in src/App.tsx:28:27
TS2304: Cannot find name 'useAccount'.
    26 |
    27 | function App() {
  > 28 |   const { isConnected } = useAccount()
       |                           ^^^^^^^^^^
    29 |   const initXmtp = async function() {
    30 |     const signer = await fetchSigner()
    31 |     const xmtp = await Client.create(signer, { env: "production" })
```

Author: ahh, the `useAccount` exports is not in the code snippet. Thanks for catching. Added in the code and also highlighted in the code base

## Step 4. Send GM to the bot, display messages, and stream new messages
Now that the XMTP identity associated with your blockchain account is connected to the XMTP network, you can send and receive messages with XMTP.

> For simplicity, your "GM Bot" app enables you to send a preconfigured "gm" message (GM Bot) to an XMTP message bot that is programmed to automatically reply to an address it receives a message from. This makes it easy for you to immediately see the outcome of sending a message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simplicity, your "GM Bot" app enables you to send a preconfigured "gm XMTP bot!" message to an XMTP message bot that is programmed to automatically reply to an address it receives a message from. This makes it easy for you to immediately see the outcome of sending a message.
```

Just updated the message text to match the actual message =)

The code snippets below do a few things:
1. Creates a `MessageList` component.
2. Retrieves and stores message in `messages` array. 
3. Streams new messages exchanged between you and the message bot and displays them.
   ```tsx title="App.tsx" showLineNumbers

>    import React, { useEffect, useState } from "react";

Reviewer: I think you need to highlight this line above to indicate that it has changed.

           }
         };
         streamMessages();
       }
     }, [client, xmtpClientAddress]);
     // highlight-end

     // highlight-start
     const onSendMessage = async () => {
       const message = "gm XMTP bot!";
       await client.send(message);
     };
    // highlight-end

     // highlight-start
     const MessageList: React.FC<MessageListProps> = ({ msg }) => {
       return (
         <ul>
           {msg.map((message, index) => (
             <li key={index}>{message.content}</li>
           ))}
         </ul>
       );
     };
     // highlight-end

     return (
       <div className="App">
         <Web3Button />
         <Web3Modal
           projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
           ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
         />
         // highlight-start
         {isConnected && xmtpClientAddress && (
           <>
             <MessageList msg={messages} />
             <button onClick={onSendMessage}>Send GM</button>
           </>
         )}
         {isConnected && !xmtpClientAddress && (
           <button onClick={initXmtp}>Connect to XMTP</button>
         )}
         // highlight-end
       </div>
     );
   }

   export default App;

> 

Reviewer: When I do run npm start, I am seeing 126 warnings - along these lines: 

`WARNING in ./node_modules/safe-json-utils/dist/cjs/index.js
Module Warning (from ./node_modules/source-map-loader/dist/cjs.js):
Failed to parse source map from '/Users/jha/src/my-app/node_modules/safe-json-utils/src/index.ts' file: Error: ENOENT: no such file or directory, open '/Users/jha/src/my-app/node_modules/safe-json-utils/src/index.ts'`

If we don't think these warnings are an issue - I wonder if it might be a good idea to include a note about it? Less experienced folx might worry that something is wrong, even if they are just warnings.

Author: Hmm i dont see these errors on my end after these steps.

Reviewer: Maybe it's just something about my local environment. They're just warnings and don't seem to be impacting the app itself - so I think it's OK! Thank you for checking on your end!

   ```
   When you run the code above, it should give you a blank skeleton like the picture below:

>    ![barebone bot app](img/gm-bot-bare.png)

Reviewer: I am able to connect my wallet and connect to XMTP! 

When I first connected, I didn't see all of the messages I've exchanged with the bot in the past -- it seemed to be only displaying the last message I sent and received. I disconnected and then connected again and same. I sent a new message and it showed up in XMTP GM app, but it didn't show up in xmtp.chat. 

I worked on some other stuff and about 10 minutes later, I reloaded the app and all of the messages are showing up! YAY! I sent a message and it showed up in XMTP GM app and xmtp.chat! However, the one I sent 10 minutes earlier isn't showing up - I wonder where that message went?

I wonder if it is just a glitch with me - or if others are seeing it?

Author: We discussed via slack. Looks like it was a glitch first time around. Resolving for now

                   :
                   <span className="font-semibold underline text-green-600">Me: </span>
                   }
                   {message.content}
                 </li>
               </>
             ))}
             
           </ul>
       )
     };

     return (
       <div className="container flex flex-col mt-8">
         <Web3Button/>
         <Web3Modal
           projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
           ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
         />

         {isConnected && xmtpClientAddress &&
           <>
             <MessageList msg={messages} />
             <button className="rounded-full bg-green-500 mt-4 p-2" onClick={onSendMessage}>Send GM</button>
           </>
         }

         {isConnected && !xmtpClientAddress && 
           <button onClick={initXmtp}>Connect to XMTP</button>}
       </div>
     );
   }

   export default App;

   
   ```

If all goes well, you should have an app that looks like this:
![gif bot tutorial](img/gm-bot.gif)

:::note
Please remember to switch out `<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>` with a real `YOUR_PROJECT_ID` number that you created on [WalletConnect Cloud](https://cloud.walletconnect.com/sign-in).  

> :::

Reviewer: I gently suggest moving this up to line 422 - just so you remind the user before they run into an issue. They may be grateful for the reminder! =)

Author: perfect

---
sidebar_label: Build an XMTP "GM" app
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Build an XMTP "GM!" app
XMTP (Extensible Message Transport Protocol) is an open protocol and network for secure and private web3 messaging. For example, you can build an app with XMTP to send messages between blockchain accounts, including chat/DMs, alerts, announcements, and more.

> Use this tutorial to build an XMTP "GM([Good Morning](https://nftska.com/gm-it-means-more-than-you-think-nft-terminology/))" messaging app. Building this app can help you learn some of the fundamental concepts involved in building with XMTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this tutorial to build an XMTP "GM ([Good Morning](https://nftska.com/gm-it-means-more-than-you-think-nft-terminology/))" messaging app. Building this app can help you learn some of the fundamental concepts involved in building with XMTP.
```

```

Next we need to create the config files which can be done via the following command:

```bash
npx tailwindcss init -p
```

Next open up the created `tailwind.config.js` file and add the following to `content`:

```js title="tailwind.config.js"
content: [
    './src/**/*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}',
],
```

Next we need to add the Tailwind directives to the `src/index.css` file, add the following to the top of the file:

```css title="src/index.css"
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

Finally, let's run our app and see it come to life
```bash
npm run start
```

The app opens at localhost:3000 in your default browser.

## Step 2. Build Connect wallet button

Your "GM!" app needs a **Connect wallet** button that enables you to connect a wallet app, such as MetaMask.

This app uses [Web3Modal](https://web3modal.com/), [Ethers](https://docs.ethers.io/v5/single-page/), and [WAGMI](https://wagmi.sh/) to connect to commonly used wallet apps.

:::important

Before starting this task, be sure to have a wallet app browser extension installed, such as MetaMask or Coinbase Wallet, and an Ethereum account. To learn more, see [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

:::

> ### Install Web3Modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install Web3Modal
```

Did you mean to dismiss this edit? =) Headings don't need to end with a period.

Author: Probably did this by accident! I meant to "Commut suggestion" via github. My mistake!

   // highlight-start
   import { fetchSigner } from '@wagmi/core';
   import { Client } from '@xmtp/xmtp-js';
   // highlight-end
   
   const chains = [ mainnet, polygon];
   // Wagmi client
   const { provider } = configureChains(chains, [
     walletConnectProvider({ projectId: "<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>" }),
   ]);
   const wagmiClient = createClient({
     autoConnect: true,
     connectors: modalConnectors({ appName: "web3Modal", chains }),
     provider,
   });
   // Web3Modal Ethereum Client
   const ethereumClient = new EthereumClient(wagmiClient, chains);

   function App() {
     const { isConnected } = useAccount()
     // highlight-start
     const initXmtp = async function() {
       const signer = await fetchSigner()
       const xmtp = await Client.create(signer, { env: "production" })
     }
     // highlight-end
     return (
       <div className="App">
         <Web3Button/>
         <Web3Modal
           projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
           ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
         />
        {isConnected && <button onClick={initXmtp}>Connect to XMTP</button>}
       </div>
     );
   }

   export default App;
   ```

>    At this point, clicking the **Connect to XMTP** button will ask your wallet for a signature request. Below is an example of a MetaMask Signature request screen for signing to enable an XMTP identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   At this point, clicking the **Connect to XMTP** button will ask your wallet for a signature request. Below is an example of a MetaMask Signature request screen for signing to create an XMTP identity.
```

Adjusted the text to match the screenshot you provided.

           ))}
         </ul>
       );
     };
     // highlight-end

     return (
       <div className="App">
         <Web3Button />
         <Web3Modal
           projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
           ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
         />
         // highlight-start
         {isConnected && xmtpClientAddress && (
           <>
             <MessageList msg={messages} />
             <button onClick={onSendMessage}>Send GM</button>
           </>
         )}
         {isConnected && !xmtpClientAddress && (
           <button onClick={initXmtp}>Connect to XMTP</button>
         )}
         // highlight-end
       </div>
     );
   }

   export default App;

   ```
   When you run the code above, it should give you a blank skeleton like the picture below:
   ![barebone bot app](img/gm-bot-bare.png)

   ## Step 5. Let's add some styles and make it look pretty!
   Okay, so now that we have all the functionality working, we are going to use Tailwind to pretty it up.

   :::note
   Please remember to switch out `<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>` with a real `YOUR_PROJECT_ID` number that you created on [WalletConnect Cloud](https://cloud.walletconnect.com/sign-in).  

>    :::

Reviewer: The formatting seems to be off - the callout isn't displaying in the rendered HTML: https://junk-range-possible-git-create-hw-tutorial-v2-xmtp-labs.vercel.app/docs/client-sdk/javascript/tutorials/build-an-xmtp-hello-world-app#step-5-lets-add-some-styles-and-make-it-look-pretty

I would try removing the extra spaces before the `:::note`, `Please...`, and `:::` - might fix it?

Author: Thanks for catching this! I tried running eveyrthing through prettier and i guess that broke it. Weird

                     <span className="font-semibold underline text-red-600">BOT:</span>
                   :
                   <span className="font-semibold underline text-green-600">Me: </span>
                   }
                   {message.content}
                 </li>
               </>
             ))}
             
           </ul>
       )
     };

     return (
       <div className="container flex flex-col mt-8">
         <Web3Button/>
         <Web3Modal
           projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
           ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
         />

         {isConnected && xmtpClientAddress &&
           <>
             <MessageList msg={messages} />
             <button className="rounded-full bg-green-500 mt-4 p-2" onClick={onSendMessage}>Send GM</button>
           </>
         }

         {isConnected && !xmtpClientAddress && 
           <button onClick={initXmtp}>Connect to XMTP</button>}
       </div>
     );
   }

   export default App;

   
   ```

If all goes well, you should have an app that looks like this:
![gif bot tutorial](img/gm-bot.gif)

Congratulations on building your own XMTP app and sending and receiving your first message with it!

> 

Reviewer: Did you want to add the callout about reloading the app before trying to switch wallets? =)

Author: Closing this ticket out. Wont be adding a callout as i dont think it is needed.

---
sidebar_label: Build an XMTP "GM" app
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Build an XMTP "GM!" app
XMTP (Extensible Message Transport Protocol) is an open protocol and network for secure and private web3 messaging. For example, you can build an app with XMTP to send messages between blockchain accounts, including chat/DMs, alerts, announcements, and more.

Use this tutorial to build an XMTP "GM ([Good Morning](https://nftska.com/gm-it-means-more-than-you-think-nft-terminology/))" messaging app. Building this app can help you learn some of the fundamental concepts involved in building with XMTP.

As its name implies, the XMTP "GM" app is intentionally barebones. Here's what the app enables you to do:

> 1. Connect your wallet( using [modal3web](https://web3modal.com/)) app to the "GM!" app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Connect your wallet( using [web3modal](https://web3modal.com/)) app to the "GM!" app.
```

    * Beyond the purposes of this "GM!" app tutorial, XMTP can be used with more than just Ethereum accounts and Metamask or Coinbase Wallet. To learn more, see Wallet apps and blockchains supported by XMTP.

* A code editor of your choice that you can use to build the app

## Step 1. Create a React + Typescript + Tailwind app

To create the React app + Typescript, run:

```
npx create-react-app my-app --template typescript
```

Let's go into our new React app and install Tailwind.css

```bash
cd my-app
npm install -D tailwindcss
```

Next we need to create the config files which can be done via the following command:

```bash
npx tailwindcss init -p
```

Next open up the created `tailwind.config.js` file and add the following to `content`:

```js title="tailwind.config.js"
content: [
    './src/**/*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}',
],
```

> Next we need to add the Tailwind directives to the `src/index.css` file, add the following to the top of the file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next we need to add the Tailwind directives to the `src/index.css` file. To do this, add the following to the top of the file:
```

```css title="src/index.css"
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

Finally, let's run our app and see it come to life
```bash
npm run start
```

The app opens at localhost:3000 in your default browser.

## Step 2. Build Connect wallet button

Your "GM!" app needs a **Connect wallet** button that enables you to connect a wallet app, such as MetaMask.

This app uses [Web3Modal](https://web3modal.com/), [Ethers](https://docs.ethers.io/v5/single-page/), and [WAGMI](https://wagmi.sh/) to connect to commonly used wallet apps.

:::important

Before starting this task, be sure to have a wallet app browser extension installed, such as MetaMask or Coinbase Wallet, and an Ethereum account. To learn more, see [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

:::

### Install Web3Modal

In the `my-app` directory, run:

```bash
npm install @web3modal/ethereum @web3modal/react wagmi ethers
```
This adds the Web3Modal, wagmi, and ethers dependencies to your `package.json`.

### Create Web3Modal button

All our code changes will be made in one file: `my-app/src/App.tsx`.

> For now, strip everything that is in the file and replace with: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For now, delete everything in the file and replace it with: 
```

import { mainnet, polygon } from "wagmi/chains";

const chains = [ mainnet, polygon];
// Wagmi client
const { provider } = configureChains(chains, [
  walletConnectProvider({ projectId: "<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>" }),
]);
const wagmiClient = createClient({
  autoConnect: true,
  connectors: modalConnectors({ appName: "web3Modal", chains }),
  provider,
});
// Web3Modal Ethereum Client
const ethereumClient = new EthereumClient(wagmiClient, chains);

function App() {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <Web3Button/>
      <Web3Modal
        projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
        ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
      />
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

:::important
Because we are using Web3Modal, we are required to pass in a `<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>` value.

Head over to [WalletConnect Cloud](https://cloud.walletconnect.com/sign-in) to sign in or sign up. Create (or use an existing) project and copy its associated Project ID. In your `App.tsx` code, replace both instances of `<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>` with this value. You will need this to use Web3Modal v2.
:::

Awesome! So we just added a **Connect Wallet** button to our app. 

Let's move to the next step!

> ## Step 3. Build a XMTP connect button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3. Build an XMTP connect button
```

     walletConnectProvider({ projectId: "<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>" }),
   ]);
   const wagmiClient = createClient({
     autoConnect: true,
     connectors: modalConnectors({ appName: "web3Modal", chains }),
     provider,
   });
   // Web3Modal Ethereum Client
   const ethereumClient = new EthereumClient(wagmiClient, chains);

   function App() {
     const { isConnected } = useAccount()
     // highlight-start
     const initXmtp = async function() {
       const signer = await fetchSigner()
       const xmtp = await Client.create(signer, { env: "production" })
     }
     // highlight-end
     return (
       <div className="App">
         <Web3Button/>
         <Web3Modal
           projectId="<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>"
           ethereumClient={ethereumClient}
         />
        {isConnected && <button onClick={initXmtp}>Connect to XMTP</button>}
       </div>
     );
   }

   export default App;
   ```
   At this point, clicking the **Connect to XMTP** button will ask your wallet for a signature request. Below is an example of a MetaMask Signature request screen for signing to create an XMTP identity.
   ![metamask signature](img/metamask_sig.png)

>    So now that we created the **Connect Wallet** and **Connect to XMTP** button, let's put it all together and display and send messages next!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   So now that we created the **Connect Wallet** and **Connect to XMTP** buttons, let's put it all together and display and send messages next!
```
